The Humane Labs Raid - Full Revised Transcript

------
STARTING CUTSCENE

Hello, people. I think you'll like this. It pays a lot, which is what you want. So there's this chemical laboratory called Humane Labs, used to be run by Rashkovsky and Popov's pharma company. A few years ago it was leased to a shadow company, run in part by Don Percival, you guys know Don Percival? Well, he's a war mongering, right wing douche with all the subtlety of a red dildo. Trust me, I've met a lot of them, you know? Er... war mongering right wing douches not red dildos... whatever, point is...

Percival is up to no good in that shithole. Nerve agents we believe. At least that's what the intel seems to suggest. What I got told on the street... and what my boss, who doesn't want you to know his name, will pay you to discover, because well.... Don't worry about the why, just worry about the how.

First, got a couple of things to take care of. Get the Humane Lab's key codes and the armored 4x4, like the ones guarding the place. You'll do the key code exchange just off Elgin Avenue. You're gonna be meeting with somebody who's had a bit of trouble with the Bureau, so please use caution.

One of you is gonna do the exchange, one of you is a bodyguard and the other two are gonna be lookouts. The armored 4x4s belong to Merryweather Security Consulting, which belongs to Don Percival, who is running Humane Labs. You'll find the Merryweather Insurgents on exercise at Davis Quartz in Blaine County.

Alright people, doesn't matter what order you do this in, just get it done. This will pay well, no questions asked. We never met. 

------
1. HUMANE RAID - KEY CODES

Okay, you're going for the codes. I'll tell my contact to meet you off Elgin Avenue.

My contact's trying to drop her Bureau surveillance. I mean, that would be tough in normal circumstances, but these guys have a real hard-on for her... in a non-creepy just annoying sense. My contact needs to be able to get in and out quick. Make sure the entrance to the lot isn't blocked by your vehicle.

So, anyway, we're hoping for the best, preparing for the worst, If anything does not go to plan, you do your best to walk out of there with the codes.

------

Karen: You here for the access codes? Humane Labs? Alright, when I get the all clear we'll give you the codes. Can I get sign off? We need to be sure about them. That bank, that was you, right? Or someone associated to you? What you're getting into right now is a whole different ball game, my friends.

Karen: You got the go ahead? We got it... The FIB, what are these clowns doing here? Shit!

------

The Bureau's coming at us! Dammit. Do not surrender. Take them out. We are burned if you are caught!

You need to clean up these agents. They're chasing a pay off, and they will keep coming.

Looks like you're clear... but we've heard that before. Drop the codes at HQ and look out for tails.


------
2. HUMANE RAID - INSURGENTS

Okay, let's get these armored vehicles. Get down to Davis Quartz. You know, if these Insurgent LAPVs, light armored personnel vehicles, came in electric with driverless capabilities, I might look into the financing options. Use it for the kids' soccer run. Not that I have children... that I know of... officially. Who needs the paperwork, right? For cars not kids. Who needs it when I can recruit degenerates like you to go on errands? Hey, by the way, you mind picking up some milk while you're out? I'm joking. You'll only be asked to collect what's needed for the larger operation. So, unless we're taking advantage of a guard's lactose intolerance, you won't be sent to the farmer's market. Rest assured.

Looks like you're almost at the quarry. Merryweather have rented the place to do some tests on the Insurgent LAPVs. It's a live fire test, so expect resistance once you engage. Try and hold off engaging for as long as possible though, your best chance of success will come if you retain control of the situation.

These vehicles are fast, armored, all terrain, perfect for militarized police, policeized military, and concerned civilian interests. Whether you're driving this into enemy forces in a theatre of war, or a crowd of protestors in Downtown LS.

Insurgent LAPV mark three integrity test on my signal. And fire!

Use the mounted machine gun on one of them if you have to. I'll meet you at our safe house on North Calafia Way.

They're going to send people after you, and they aren't going to be nice people. Make sure we get the LAPVs back in one piece.

How are those LAPVs doing? Come on, folks.
 
Hey, can we hurry this up? Some of us have got other things to do. Precognition ping pong for LS industry leaders doesn't happen every day, okay? It's biweekly, and the other one clashes with my rolfing.

You know the person who said good things come to those who wait?

------

I tell you we only needed one of these? Other one's a spare. You're gonna be going in the one without a gun, don't want to draw attention. Pull the electrics, strip the plating, EMP will go in, Merryweather won't notice the difference. You guys won't need armor in there, will you?

Alright, now get going, let's wrap this up.


------
IN-BETWEEN MID CUTSCENE

Okay, well done. Should take this up for a living. We're making progress here.

Like I said, nothing complex or dangerous and that is exactly the way I want you to approach this next little task. We are going to borrow something off the navy. An EMP. They're not gonna mind. Thing is kept on a plane, the plane is kept on a boat, the boat is kept in the ocean. All very simple, just borrowing something off the government, like a library. You are going to bring the plane here. We're gonna unload the EMP, sell the plane to fund the rest of the operation, write off the late fees, easy. After that you need to deliver the EMP here, ~we're gonna borrow a helicopter from here and we should be good to go, alright?

Great, good, call me.

------
3. HUMANE RAID - EMP

The EMP is out at sea, but get over to El Burro Heights first. There's a boat there you can use as a tender.

Enjoy this moment of calm before the storm. There won't be an actual storm, according to my weather app, but there'll probably be explosions and waves caused by things crashing into the sea. Hopefully not you, or the plane we're after. Only the bad guys will crash into the sea. It'll be uplifting but traumatic as well, so yeah... enjoy the calm.

You're coming up on the boat. Everyone on board, head out to sea.

Take the boat on a south-easterly bearing and you'll see the vessel you're boarding.

You know what an EMP is, right? An electro-magnetic pulse - goes off and fries all the electrics in the vicinity. They're keeping it in a Hydra jump jet - forty year old technology, but anything newer would rely on circuitry and get taken out by the pulse.

Yeah, I know.... an Insurgent and an EMP are non-standard equipment for a raid like this. Based on Rashkovsky's in-depth knowledge of the facility, the schematics he provided, we've been able to draw up a plan with a high probability of success. The human factor discounted. The drawback is the shopping list, but you have it in your hands now, and you're running down the aisles and filling up our cart. Come on.

You see it? The aircraft carrier. Prepare to board and make your way up to the flight deck. When you find the Hydra with the EMP on it, bring it back to the base. How do we know it's on the ship? The crew leaked an inventory on the dark net - put everything up for sale, the bastards. If we don't get this equipment, it'll go into the hands of the terrorists, not thieves.

You ready to board? There are two ways into the hangar bay - one door in front of you and another up a flight of stairs. Make your way through the hangar, and take some more stairs up to the flight deck.

System: Code red, we have been compromised.

They've put out a mayday signal. Keep pushing. Get to the jet.

There's a supply room off the hangar bay, if you need to stock up.

The Hydra's at the far end of the flight deck. It has vertical take-off and landing capabilities, so whoever's flying better know how to get airborne.

One of you is flying the Hydra home, the rest - making sure it gets there. Don't disappoint me.

The switch on the stick swaps between vertical and horizontal jets.

System: Minimal interval take off now! They've got our Hydra.
System 2: Roger that. Zancudo Six will down the jet.

Down those jets before they down you. I am not pulling the EMP out your wreckage. You got one. One more signal lost. I got one less angry blip on my screen. These jets are four decades newer than the Hydra. Keep going.

Clear skies. Bring the Hydra in, and we'll take a look at that EMP.

You're almost with us. Be careful landing the Hydra. Set it down gently. Bring out the landing gear, and set it down gently. You will not be popular if you mess this up here.

------

People, go to work. EMP comes out of the jet, goes back into the 4x4. We use the jet to make some money, destabilize an oil state and we prep the Insurgent to go back into the Merryweather fleet. Now, you, we're moving onto phase two and that means taking the Insurgent, once it's fitted with the EMP and getting it into Humane Labs, so we can turn the lights off... Hey! Careful with that thing.

It also means getting a Valkyrie attack chopper from, and er... well, this'll teach them who to listen to... Merryweather Security at the Port of LS. Once we're done with that we'll go back to your place, get started on that thing I know nothing about, details are on your board. Your board at the apartment... go!


------
4. HUMANE RAID - VALKYRIE

Alright. You on the way to the LS Naval Port? I'm monitoring closed channels, so I'll let you know if there are any problems on the horizon. Get the chopper and get out - that's the order of the day.

You can approach Merryweather's position from the front or the back, on land, or by sea, or from both directions.

Full disclosure here, folks. This is Merryweather Security San Andreas base. If you think they take other people's security seriously, you should see how they treat their own turf. Expect armed patrols, sniper units, and emergency response teams. Your best shot is moving fast, and staying in front of them.

The Valkyrie attack chopper's got three gun placements. Minigun positions on either side and a large calibre explosive round gun in the copilot's seat. So, one of you will fly it, the other three will shoot... that's on the off chance there's anything to shoot other than seagulls.

You going in the front? Okay, remember they know that warehouse better than you. They know the hiding spots. Watch your sixes. Watch your threes. Keep it two by two. Over.

Merryweather's channel's blowing up. I'll take that to mean you've made contact. Move on the chopper. One flying, the rest manning the guns.

They've dispatched air units, point and pull the triggers, you cannot bring bogeys back to us. 

That bird's got a beak and talons, but not many feathers... if you get me? It's well armed with barely any armor. Pilot, keep the other helos at a distance. Gunners, make your shots count.

You gotta clear the air before you come back.

That's it. Clear skies. Good work. My people are waiting to babysit the bird just north of the Alamo Sea. Drop it and you're done.

Oh, we've collected quite a fleet for this op. The light armored personnel carriers, the jump jet, now the attack chopper. Countries have been invaded with less. Unsuccessfully. You know what I say, you can never be too prepared or too well-equipped. Looks like you're almost with them. Bring the chopper down easy. You don't want to mess this up now.

------

Okay, we got it from here.

------
5. HUMANE RAID - DELIVER EMP

Alright, let's get the EMP in the LAPV to HLaR. The LAPV's still at the safe house on North Calafia.

Obviously, this is a malware style attack, so we need to get the Trojan in without it being identified. It's a genuine Merryweather Insurgent, with no obvious signs of tampering, so once it's in place, it shouldn't be flagged as suspicious. 'Til it's too late, that is. We're providing you with supressed firearms to make minimum noise impact when dealing with guards. The rest is up to you.

If there are guards in each others' sight lines, you'll need to coordinate your take downs. Standard procedure for a gang of no good criminals like us, I'm sure, but I thought worth a mention.

This is almost my favorite part of the process. Putting on the finishing touches. It's like the night before Christmas, or the morning before a test. Yeah, I got a degree... in prison. The anticipation is killing me. So I guess we're all in danger.

You'll be happy to know we got a good price for the Hydra. That jet's a collector's item. Real nostalgic appeal. I just hope it gets used for what it was built for, you know? And it's out there bombing orphanages instead of sitting in moth balls appreciating in value. The buyer does have a questionable human rights record, mind you. So here's hoping he's not just rolling it out for air shows.

Everyone, in the Insurgent, and get over to Humane Labs.

You see the EMP glowing in the trunk - that's our payload.

You should think of this as a dress rehearsal. You're getting a feel for the props, the stage will be set, you're working with the other actors. Only, this is the kind of dress rehearsal where if you screw up you die. 'Hey man whose name we don't know, if we're breaking into the lab now, why don't we just go for the target?' Because you'll die. Either Merryweather will kill you, or I will kill you for shitting on my carefully constructed plan.

You're approaching the target. Pull up outside, and we'll talk logistics. We've hacked in and put the CCTV on a loop. It won't be stable for long, so you'll have to move quick. Let me show you - I'm sending you the live feed.

------

I've transferred control of the cameras over to you. We don't have very long, so scan the area quick and make sure you know where the guards are. You see, the guards'll raise the alarm if they see anything suspicious. Look out for their sight lines, and take them out in pairs if you have to... but you only need to drop them if they're in the way. The aim is to get the Insurgent to the bay at the rear of the facility. Clear a path to the bay.

------
 
There are multiple Merryweather guards between you and the bay. The bay is near the main switchboard for the facility, and its primary generator. It's where the EMP will do the most damage, and where it's least likely to be discovered. The more damage the EMP does, the longer the lights will be out, and the higher are our chances of a successful mission.

You're doing well. Keep it up.

Stay quiet. Keep moving.

Concentration is key people. Take an amphetamine if you have one. 

Visualize your goal. Let's do this.

Get familiar with your surroundings. You'll be back here soon.

You'll need to hack the security panel to get the Insurgent into the bay. Go to work on it.

Alright. The malware's installed. Pull out.

There's a Merryweather team inbound. They have no reason to suspect you. Do not engage. Okay, hurry it up. We just lost connection, they're seeing live images on the security feed.


------
THE HUMANE LABS RAID

So, we're good to go. I think.
You've done great and this won't be a problem. No one is gonna admit that anything happened here. According to my sources, well, Mr. Percival won't be successfully bidding on any government contracts if he can't stop himself from being robbed. 

You'll be fine, it's just gonna require a little bit of finesse. Two teams - chopper crew, ground crew, all of you will be flying in together. Ground crew is going to jump into the labs, set off the EMP, make their way towards the information we're after while the power is down. Chopper crew holds position in the air, deals with incoming security teams. Once the ground team has what we're after you coordinate an evac and meet my contact with the file. Are we clear?

So remember, if never meet again, we never met at all. I love y'all, which is why it's best to pretend that nothing happened. And if it did happen, it wasn't me, and it wasn't me because I was never here. Stay strong! I love y'all, I love ya.

And that's how we don't get caught doing naughty things.

------

Your bird is waiting where you let it, just North of the Alamo Sea. You're all flying in together, so you've all got to go over there.

I want this operation over and forgotten about as quickly as possible, so the amount you are paid will depend on how fast it's done. I hope money's good motivation for you.

Ground team, I'm gonna run through your specialised equipment for the mission; One - night vision goggles, when we trigger the EMP, the lights go out, and you'll need to be able to see. Two - rebreather, you're going out through a cooling tunnel, the rebreather's compact, and it'll give you enough oxygen to make the surface. Three - flare gun, when you make the beach, shoot a flare, and the chopper crew'll fix your coordinates. Four - parachute for the drop. Five - special carbine with suppressor. Six - pump shotgun with suppressor. Seven - grenades. Eight - sticky bombs. Five trough eight you should be familiar with already.

Pilot, gunner, here's what your carrying; Parachutes - just in case. Grenades - just in case. And sticky bombs - just in case. And we're giving you night vision goggles too. Okay? Alright.

You know as well as I do, this operation is the product of hundreds of man hours, and million of dollars. Unless you believe in string theory and an infinite multiverse, this is our only shot at this. All that work, all that money, for everything, or nothing'

That's a lot of pressure for four people to shoulder. But pressure can turn shit into diamonds, or it can turn diamonds into dust. What's it gonna be today? I've got faith in you. As much as you can have faith in a rag tag bunch of reprobates, hastily assembled, and motivated solely by their greed. Well, they're greed and their bloodlust.

You don't talk much, probably don't listen either, but you're effective tools. Let's see if you can plug one last hole for me. Be my tool, one last time.

Agent: She's all yours.

Okay. Here we go. Pilot's taking the controls, aerial gunner gets first choice on position, side-facing minigun placements are in the rear, high cal explosive rounds in the copilot's seat. Keep in mind there's a longer fire return interval on that one. Ground team, you take the last two positions in the bird, and you get ready to jump.

Okay, now, fly out to the lab, gaining altitude. You'll need to be high for the ground team to hit their drop zone, and for your bird's electrics to be clear of the EMP.

When you're above the lab, we trigger the pulse, power down there goes out, and then ground team can jump. Chopper team will hold position above the lab, trying to stop the ground team getting swamped inside.

Triggering the EMP. Get ready to jump. You're clear to drop. Go! Go! Go!

Okay, ground team, let's go. Blow the doors, and get into the lab. What we need is being stored in a research station in the center of the facility. Move quickly, get through the lab, and get us that data. 

Looks like some systems are running on an emergency generator. Long as the main switch is off, that won't cause us problems. 

Keep moving and be ready for resistance. You're no good to us dead... not quiet yet.

You should be coming up on the research station. The network infrastructure at that place is state of the art, it won't take you long to pull the data.

Transfer's complete. Go down the corridor, get in the elevator. Keep going. You need to get to the cooling tunnel. That'll take you out to the sea. Lucky for you, the guards dropped some flares by the pool. Look out for them.

Alright, get the breathing apparatus on and get in the drink. R&D says there is enough air for you to reach topside. Let's hope they're right.

Chopper should be in bound. Get ready. Send up a flare to let them know where you are when you reach land.

Let's go, let's go. Drop any Merryweather units coming after you, then get out of there. There's more coming at you. Look out!

You clear? Alright, then I'm done. Meet my contact at the Land Act Reservoir, and you'll be paid. You know, I've lost a lot of operatives in the field, I'm happy you weren't some of them.


Karen Daniels: Okay, you've had your fun. But it's time to put the toys back in their box, and to go to bed. Bring the chopper in, and I'll give you a debrief. You want to get paid don't you? That what this was about? Not just the shooting and the explosions?

You've done your work, made this country safer, but that does not mean I've got to like you

------

Karen Daniels: When I ran agents in the field I had to entrap them, cajole them, threaten with deportation. You're never gonna know what I had to do. Now, apparently, all you gotta do is give them a couple bucks and few kind words. I guess there really is no accounting for stupidity. But, and I'm serious now, as stupid as you are, you are not gonna talk about what happened here. Because your usefulness to us, well... it just ran out.

Karen Daniels: And for God's sake, I hope you're professional enough to get rid of the evidence.